# Yamp 1.0.0.3 tutorial 01
## Introduction
So, you have taken an intrest in Monadic
Parsing Combinators in Haskell. Well the
first thing you should know is that their
very easy to use. This is because they are
composed from tiny functions which you use
to build bigger ones. Here is what you will
learn in this tutorial:
1. How to structure your Parser module.
2. How to use the basic `matchChar` parser.
3. How to use the `parse` function to run your parsers.
4. How to build your own Parsers.

## Structure
Alright, lets take a look at how a parser module
is structured.

```haskell
module Foo where
    import Data.Yamp
    import Text.Yamp
    import Control.Applicative

    --
    -- Other imports.
    --

    --
    -- Parser code.
    --
```

The first thing we do is declare our module.
(You can replace `Foo` with any name you like).
Then we import: `Data.Yamp`, `Text.Yamp` and
`Control.Applicative`. `Data.Yamp` contains
the Monadic Parser type `Parser`. This is needed
to declare our own Parsers. `Text.Yamp` contains
nearly all of the primitive Parsers. `Control.Applicative`
contains the `Alternative` type and the Parser `some`
and `many`. And thats the basic structure of our Parser module.

## matchChar
A very regular task in parsing is
matching a Char (checking that it it's equal to another).
This is the job of the `matchChar` Parser. Here is it's type
signature:
```haskell
matchChar :: Char -> Parser Char
```
We will cover it's return type later. Basically, what `matchChar`
does is: check if the current character in the Parser stream is
equal to the one we give it. It returns that Char on success.

## Your own parser
Alright lets build a simple Parser
that will match the sequence of Chars
"abc". Let's start with it's type signature:
```haskell
abc :: Parser String
```
Ok. The `Parser` type takes a paramater (in this
case `String`) and returns a value of that type.
Here is a fully working parser:
```haskell
abc :: Parser String
abc  = do a <- matchChar 'a'
          b <- matchChar 'b'
          c <- matchChar 'c'
          return [a,b,c]
```
First we match the Char 'a'. Then we match the
Char 'b'. Then the Char 'c'. Then we return 3
element list contain a, b and c. Thats it. It
is now a fully functioning parser.

## parse
The most common task in the Parsing world
is running a parser. That is exactly what `parse`
does. Lets take a look at `abc`. How do we run it.
Well we would write:
```haskell
parse abc "abc"
```
which would return "abc". What do you think happens
if we write:
```haskell
parse abc "cba"
-- > ["abc"]
```
Well since `"cba" /= "abc"` our parser would fail and
return an empty list `[]`.

## Conclusion
In this tutorial we have learnt how to use the `matchChar`,
build our own parsers and run those parsers.
